Liste der Codes	Memo	Häufigkeit
Codesystem		1013
Testing	-	0
You need excellent test coverage	-	2
Testing is no panacea	-	1
Mentioning other programming language	When a direct comparison to features, conventions or culture of another programming language is made	15
Thing of other language does not exist	-	2
It is differs here to (most) other languages	-	5
You can do it just as well in other language	-	10
Neutral comparison of pros and cons of different languages	-	3
Why would I ever use X over Y?	-	1
It bears some resemblance to other language	-	10
Languages have differernt implementations (of same thing)	-	5
I want to do it like in this other language	-	6
One language implementation is good/better than the other	-	11
 Talk of general Coding Principles	DRY is one of the often used acronyms telling you how to write good code. It was especially popular  in the early 2000s, but  is still popular today.	4
Dynamic vs. static typing	-	2
The "OOP" way of doing things	-	2
Mentioning of "common wisdom"	This can be a reference to some kind of common wisdom like "so many men, so many minds", or an abstract idea of how things are similar to unwritten rules	3
Don't reinvent the wheel	In a sense, this is also an appeal to authority. It implies that there is a commonly accepted way of doing things, so do not deviate from the given path.	3
Unwritten Rules of Good coding	-	2
Rejection of Coding Principle (in context)	-	1
Referencing external sources	The basic idea of this tree of codes is to understand what kind of other sources a community preferably utilizes. A distinction is made between "authorative sources", those that carry extra weight due to either being designated as "official sources", a "source of truth", or by going through the publishing process (eg. a book), or by referencing a conference talk, as speakers there tend to be invited only if they have some kind of authority as well.	0
Referencing non-authorative Sources	Like articles, blog posts, forum posts or rather  unknown books	0
Referencing wikipedia	-	2
referencing other forum post	-	23
Referencing an article, blog post or tutorial	When linking to or talking about an article, blog-post or tutorial. 	29
Referencing authorative sources	Mentioning authorative sources like Documentation, Books, or opinions of community leaders	29
Referencing a conference or academic paper	-	2
Referencing a published book	-	4
Referencing official documentation	-	58
Referencing package / tool / inofficial documentation	-	1
Legacy vs. Modern Practices	-	5
Refactoring Code	-	1
Calling something or inquiring about modern practice	When people ask about or explain what modern syntax or coding style constitutes	2
Mentioning of deprecated or no-longer valid syntax	-	10
Don't do the deprecated	When someone argues against using deprecated options	11
Don't mind if I do the deprecated	-	1
Mentioning modern or future options or concerns	-	17
Importance of Backwards Compatibility	Backwards compatibility is a very important issue in maintenance, however it often collides with making a language more concise or moving it forward. Thus, opinions on backwards compatibility can offer some insights on the communities holding them	9
Pragmatism vs. Purity	A (language) community might have rules, norms, and preferences, but does it follow them when they are impractical? Discussion on this can be marked with this code.	0
Concern for future Coders	-	2
Referencing cs theory	References to theoretical CS, or higher-level concepts in SE, CS or maths could maybe be interpreted as being opposed to a very pragmatic approach	16
Suggesting a pragmatic approach	When people suggest a maybe non-optimal but simple or easy solution	3
Lazy approach is good	-	1
Messy (but it works)	An approach that can be called messy or "quick and dirty" can be considered pragmatic and would stand in opposition to a more "pure and formal approach"	8
What should idiomatic code look like?	Pythonic or rubyesque or perl-ish (Perl users usually rather say idiomatic code or talk about "the perl way")

Subcodes of this code are generally *language specific* and don't have the same claim to generality as the related codes in "Mentioning of abstract Coding Principles"	5
Mentioning the Spirit of the Language	When people say "the ruby spirit", "pythonic code", "the perl way" etc.	11
Mentioning a preferred (style of) solution	-	9
Calling something good practice or style	-	7
Calling something bad practice or bad style	Calling out or defining bad practice in code-style / coding	14
Mentioning of implicit rules or conventions	When people talk about conventions / rules within the community	10
Disapproval of Convention or implicit behavior	When someone criticises a convention or implicit rule within a community.	9
Conversational Tone	Codes about how people communicate with each other fall within this category	0
Statement of Group Belonging	When people explicitly mention a feeling of group-belonging, or what it means to be part of this programming language community, or define an out-group as different,	11
Talk of magic	This is very common in the rails community, talking about hidden/underlying behavior that is supposed to make things easier as magic. Curious as to how much this holds true for the other two	9
Humorous Remark	A joke in broader sense	27
Statement of Disapproval	Statement of disapproval of people present in the discussion, others not present, or possible imaginary strawmen. Some general statements of vaguer discontent might fall under this code as well.	39
Statement of Appreciation	Expressing, appreciation, gratefulness, happiness or other positive feelings towards people present in or subject of the discussion, or of a broader community as such. Vaguer feelings of appreciation can also fall in this category.	72
One way vs many	Based on the idea of "there is more than one way to do it" vs. "there should be one preferred way of doing things"	0
One way, recommended solution or best practice	15.01.24 10:10 - anton
Fusioniert mit Code TIMRTOWTDT vs. There should be one way to do things > Recommended way of doing something
	7
Answer states (that there is) a preferred solution	-	1
Asking for a preferred / recommended solution	-	2
Disapproval of multiple options	Americans might say "My way or the highway", Mandalorians say "This is the way", Pythonistas like to say "There should be one way to do it". This is the code for all of them and others.	15
TIMRTOWTDI	-	17
Answer gives multiple options or additional answer than accepte	This code is used to mark answers as giving multiple options of doing one thing without explicitly discussing the pros and cons of having this.	70
Approval of multiple options	Some people might like the freedom of more choices, or defend specific new choices that are added in addition to old ones since they offer certain advantages. This is the code for them.	17
Disapproval of recommended / preferred solution	-	5
Mention Alias or equivalent alternative	-	4
culture categories	Grouping text by culture categories defined as conceptions of waht is true, good, beautiful, and efficient.	0
Efficiency	Statements on memory usage, execution time, mental load, maintainability and other similar things fall under this category	23
Focus on performance	-	43
Something else more important than performance	-	2
Focus on memory efficiency	-	2
Benchmarking results	-	12
Short code is better	The goal of keeping code as short as possible has a long tradition in programming circle. A particular love for one-liners is often attributed to the Perl community. Tracking mentions of this can be done with this code and general recommendations on how to keep code as short as possible.	24
Goodness	Goodness, as in morality, applying normative values, be that on coding, software engineering or community interaction. Statements such as "You must...", "Never do..." or "We should..." generally fall in this category.	26
Rebel against authority	When people disgree with authorative sources, it might be an indicator of a more "freedom loving" community or at least individual	2
truth	Statement of truths are obviously abundant in relatively factual discussions like the ones subject of this exploration. Sentences like 1+1==2 might be true - but rather uninteresting in our context, thus only less obvious statements of or about truth, especially those meta-truths, shall be encoded with this.	9
beauty	Even programmers are visual animals, and often hold surprisingly strong views about beauty. Discussions on how code, output or other things should look can be marked with this.	18
Readability is important	-	8
There's something here, but I'm not sure what it is	-	85
Things Lower than language level	For example, when talking about specific interpreter / compiler implementations and how they vary. 	8
Rails as ruby default	-	2
Usage of metaphor to explain code	When people use metaphors to explain how code works in an attempt to make things more easily understandable	2
There's a package/module/tool for this	When people suggest using packages or modules instead of self-writing new code. Closely connected to not "reinventing the wheel"	56
Don't use a package/module for this	-	8
