Liste der Codes	Memo	Häufigkeit
Codesystem		664
Comparison to other programming language	When a direct comparison to features, conventions or culture of another programming language is made	49
Referencing external sources	-	0
Implicit reference	-	0
Mention of Coding Principles	DRY is one of the often used acronyms telling you how to write good code. It was especially popular  in the early 2000s, but  is still popular today.	4
Rejection of Coding Principle (in context)	-	1
Don't reinvent the wheel	In a sense, this is also an appeal to authority. It implies that there is a commonly accepted way of doing things, so do not deviate from the given path.	2
Unwritten Rules	-	5
Mentioning of "common wisdom"	This can be a reference to some kind of common wisdom like "so many men, so many minds", or an abstract idea of how things are similar to unwritten rules	3
Best practice	-	4
Referencing non-authorative Sources	Like articles, blog posts, forum posts or rather  unknown books	0
Referencing wikipedia	-	2
Referencing a video	-	1
referencing other forum post	-	11
Referencing an article or blog post	When linking or talking about an article talking about an issue	19
Referencing authorative sources	Mentioning authorative sources like Documentation, Books, or opinions of community leaders	29
Referencing a published book	-	2
Referencing official documentation	-	38
Legacy vs. Modern Practices	-	1
Mentioning future option	-	6
Mentioning of deprecated or no-longer valid syntax	-	7
Importance of Backwards Compatibility	Backwards compatibility is a very important issue in maintenance, however it often collides with making a language more concise or moving it forward. Thus, opinions on backwards compatibility can offer some insights on the communities holding them	5
Don't do the deprecated	When someone argues against using deprecated options	6
Don't mind if I do the deprecated	-	1
Pragmatism vs. Purity	A (language) community might have rules, norms, and preferences, but does it follow them when they are impractical? Discussion on this can be marked with this code.	5
Referencing cs theory	References to theoretical CS, or higher-level concepts in SE, CS or maths could maybe be interpreted as being opposed to a very pragmatic approach	10
Quick and dirty	When people suggest a maybe non-optimal but simple or easy solution	2
What should idiomatic code look like?	Pythonic or rubyesque or perl-ish (Perl users usually rather say idiomatic code)	15
Calling something good practice or style	-	4
Mentioning a preferred (style) of solution	-	3
Calling something bad practice or bad style	Calling out or defining bad practice in code-style / coding	11
Mentioning of implicit rules or conventions	When people talk about conventions / rules within the community	7
Disapproval of Convention	When someone criticises a convention or implicit rule within a community.	7
Disapproval of implicit behavior	When someone complains about or tries to dissuade relying on implicit behavior	1
Conversational Tone	Codes about how people communicate with each other fall within this category	1
Statement of Group Belonging	When people explicitly mention a feeling of group-belonging, or what it means to be part of this programming language community, or define an out-group as different,	9
Talk of magic	This is very common in the rails community, talking about hidden/underlying behavior that is supposed to make things easier as magic. Curious as to how much this holds true for the other two	7
Humorous Remark	A joke in broader sense	21
Statement of Disapproval	Statement of disapproval of people present in the discussion, others not present, or possible imaginary strawmen. Some general statements of vaguer discontent might fall under this code as well.	26
Statement of Appreciation	Expressing, appreciation, gratefulness, happiness or other positive feelings towards people present in or subject of the discussion, or of a broader community as such. Vaguer feelings of appreciation can also fall in this category.	61
Is this the way	Based on the idea of "there is more than one way to do it" vs. "there should be one preferred way of doing things"	9
Recommended way of doing something	-	1
Neutral way of mentioning multiple options	-	17
Answer gives multiple options or additional answer than accepte	This code is used to mark answers as giving multiple options of doing one thing without explicitly discussing the pros and cons of having this.	17
Approval of multiple options	Some people might like the freedom of more choices, or defend specific new choices that are added in addition to old ones since they offer certain advantages. This is the code for them.	8
Disapproval of multiple options	Americans might say "My way or the highway", Mandalorians say "This is the way", Pythonistas like to say "There should be one way to do it". This is the code for all of them and others.	14
culture categories	Grouping text by culture categories defined as conceptions of waht is true, good, beautiful, and efficient.	0
Efficiency	Statements on memory usage, execution time, mental load, maintainability and other similar things fall under this category	28
Focus on performance	-	23
Benchmarking results	-	4
Short code is better	The goal of keeping code as short as possible has a long tradition in programming circle. A particular love for one-liners is often attributed to the Perl community. Tracking mentions of this can be done with this code and general recommendations on how to keep code as short as possible.	13
Goodness	Goodness, as in morality, applying normative values, be that on coding, software engineering or community interaction. Statements such as "You must...", "Never do..." or "We should..." generally fall in this category.	24
The "ObjectOrientedWay" of doing things	-	1
Rebel against authority	When people disgree with authorative sources, it might be an indicator of a more "freedom loving" community or at least individual	2
truth	Statement of truths are obviously abundant in relatively factual discussions like the ones subject of this exploration. Sentences like 1+1==2 might be true - but rather uninteresting in our context, thus only less obvious statements of or about truth, especially those meta-truths, shall be encoded with this.	6
beauty	Even programmers are visual animals, and often hold surprisingly strong views about beauty. Discussions on how code, output or other things should look can be marked with this.	16
There's something here - not sure yet what	-	56
We are less concerned with implementation details	-	2
Giving implementation details	-	1
Rails as ruby default	-	1
Usage of metaphor to explain code	When people use metaphors to explain how code works in an attempt to make things more easily understandable	2
There's a package/module/tool for this	When people suggest using packages or modules instead of self-writing new code. Closely connected to not "reinventing the wheel"	30
Don't use a package/module for this	-	3
